Teleport Kubernetes Service (#4961)
gravitational/teleport: docs/5.0/kubernetes-access.md

description: How to set up and configure Teleport for Kubernetes access with SSO and RBAC
---

# Teleport Kubernetes Access

Teleport has the ability to act as a compliance gateway for managing privileged
access to Kubernetes clusters. This enables the following capabilities:

* Teleport acts as a single authentication endpoint for both SSH and multiple
  Kubernetes clusters. Users can authenticate against a Teleport Access Plane using
  Teleport's [`tsh login`](cli-docs.md#tsh-login) command and retrieve credentials
  for both SSH and Kubernetes API.
* Users RBAC roles are always synchronized between SSH and Kubernetes, making
  it easier to implement policies like _developers must not access production
  data_.
* Complete `kubectl` auditing and session recordings for `kubectl exec`

> * Multi Kubernetes Support. Quickly switch between multiple K8s clusters using [`tsh kube login`]()

Reviewer: Missing link

## Start Here

> Before we dive into setup, we've a few options to help guide you. We've create
> Teleport Kubernetes Access to easy for solo-devs accessing minikube to large enterprises
> accessing hundreds of Kubernetes clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before we dive into setup, we've a few options to help guide you. We've created some example
Teleport Kubernetes Access configurations for different scenarios, all the way from solo developers
accessing minikube through to to large enterprises accessing hundreds of Kubernetes clusters.
```

* Connecting to a local MicroK8s Cluster:
     * Use Option 2, once setup you'll need to connect to Ingress via TODO

* Connecting to one EKS/GKS hosted Kubernetes:
      * Use Option 2, once setup you'll need to connect to Ingress via TODO

* Connecting to multiple Kubernetes clusters in one cloud/region:
      * Use Option 1, once setup you'll need to connect via the root Teleport service.

* Connecting to multiple Kubernetes clusters in multiple regions/cloud:
      *  Use Option 1, once setup you'll need to connect via the root Teleport service.
      *  Use Option 1 combined with [Trusted Clusters](kubernetes-access.md/#multiple-kubernetes-clusters-via-trusted-cluster)

* Migrating pre-5.0 Teleport clusters to new `kubernetes_service`:
      * Please review our [Teleport Kubernetes Guide](kubernetes-5.0-migration.md)

## Teleport Kubernetes Service

By default, the Kubernetes integration is turned off in Teleport. The configuration
setting to enable the integration in the proxy service section in the `/etc/teleport.yaml`
config file, as shown below:

```yaml
# snippet from /etc/teleport.yaml on the Teleport proxy service:
kubernetes_service:
    enabled: yes

>     public_addr: [k8s.example.com:3026]
>     listen_addr: 0.0.0.0:3026

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    public_addr: [k8s.example.com:3027]
    listen_addr: 0.0.0.0:3027
```

- `listen_addr` defines which network interface and port the Teleport proxy server
  should bind to. It defaults to port 3026 on all NICs.

## Setup

Connecting the Teleport proxy to Kubernetes

There are two options for setting up Teleport to access Kubernetes:

> ### Option 1: Teleport as a  "gateway" to multiple K8s Clusters

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Option 1: Standalone Teleport "gateway" for multiple K8s Clusters
```

> A single central Teleport Data Plane acting as "gateway". Multiple Kubernetes clusters

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A single central Teleport Access Plane acting as "gateway". Multiple Kubernetes clusters
```

connect to it over reverse tunnels.

The root Teleport Cluster should be setup following our standard config, to make sure
clients can connect you must make sure that an invite token is set for the `kube`
service and proxy_addr has `kube_lisetn_addr` set.

```yaml
# Example Snippet for the Teleport Root Service
#...
auth_service:
  enabled: "yes"
  listen_addr: 0.0.0.0:3025
  tokens:
  - kube:866c6c114724a0fa4d4d73216afd99fb1a2d6bfde8e13a19
#...
proxy_service:
  public_addr: proxy.example.com:3080
  kube_listen_addr: 0.0.0.0:3026
```

> To get quickly setup, we've a Helm chart that'll connect to the above root cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get quickly setup, we provide a Helm chart that'll connect to the above root cluster.
```

```bash
# Add Teleport Helm Repo
$ helm repo add teleport https://charts.releases.teleport.dev

# Installing the Helm Chart

> helm install teleport-agent . \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
helm install teleport-kube-agent teleport/teleport-kube-agent \
```

>   --namespace teleport \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  --namespace teleport \
  --create-namespace \
```

>   --set proxyAddr=$PROXY_ENDPOINT \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  --set proxyAddr=proxy.example.com:3080 \
```

  --set authToken=$JOIN_TOKEN \
  --set kubeClusterName=$KUBERNETES_CLUSTER_NAME
```

| Things to set | Description |
|-|-|

> | `proxyAddr` | The Address of the Teleport Root Service |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `proxyAddr` | The Address of the Teleport Root Service, using the proxy listening port |
```

| `authToken` | A static `kube` invite token |

> | `kubeClusterName` | Kubernetes Cluster nam: As we there is no easy to detect the name from the environment. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `kubeClusterName` | Kubernetes Cluster name (there is no easy way to automatically detect the name from the environment) |
```

> ### Option 2: Proxy running inside a k8s cluster.

Reviewer 2: One concern with these updated options: it's not clear that you can still use the new helm chart above with this setup in Option 2.

We should instead explain:
- auth+proxy can run anywhere (inside or outside of k8s), and proxy must have `kube_listen_addr`
- options for connecting k8s clusters:
  1. `kubernetes_service` in a pod (plus new helm chart docs from above)
  2. `kubernetes_service` elsewhere, with kubeconfig (plus link to https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/blob/master/examples/k8s-auth/get-kubeconfig.sh for building kubeconfigs)

Author: What's required / instustiriocns for setting up the helm chart? Can you provide the options for what flags are needed for the helm chart.   Also, do we setup ingress / TLS? How's that handled for running inside the k8s cluster?

Reviewer 2: Instructions for the `kubernetes_service` helm chart: https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/blob/master/examples/chart/teleport-kube-agent/README.md
For `kubernetes_service` we don't need ingress or TLS certs, it connects over a reverse tunnel to the proxy (like IoT nodes).

Author: Thanks Andrew, I've added a bit more clarity and reworked your comment.  I plan to come back and break out this doc and hope to expand more with the next iteration.

Deploy Teleport Proxy service as a Kubernetes pod inside the Kubernetes cluster
you want the proxy to have access to.

```yaml
# snippet from /etc/teleport.yaml on the Teleport proxy service:
auth_service:
  cluster_name: example.com
  public_addr: auth.example.com:3025
# ..
proxy_service:
  public_addr: proxy.example.com:3080
  kube_listen_addr: 0.0.0.0:3026

kubernetes_service:

>   enabled: yes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  enabled: yes
  listen_addr: 0.0.0.0:3027
  kube_cluster_name: kube.example.com
```

```

> If you're using Helm, we've a chart that you can use. Run these commands:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using Helm, we provide a chart that you can use. Run these commands:
```

```bash
$ helm repo add teleport https://charts.releases.teleport.dev
$ helm install teleport teleport/teleport
```
You will still need a correctly configured `values.yaml` file for this to work. See
our [Helm Docs](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/tree/master/examples/chart/teleport#introduction) for more information.

![teleport-kubernetes-inside](img/teleport-k8s-pod.svg)

## Impersonation

!!! note

>     If you used [the helm chart from Option

Reviewer: Link goes to the wrong place

We've a complete guide on setting up Teleport with EKS. Please see the [Using Teleport with EKS Guide](aws-oss-guide.md#using-teleport-with-eks).

## Multiple Kubernetes Clusters via Teleport Access Plane

> Teleport 5.0 fixed a long [requested feature](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/issues/3680)
> to support multiple Kubernetes Clusters via a single Teleport instance. This setup is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Teleport 5.0 adds the [long requested feature](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/issues/3680)
of supporting multiple Kubernetes Clusters via a single Teleport instance. This setup is
```

> of supporting multiple Kubernetes Clusters via a single Teleport instance. This setup is

Reviewer 2: If users really want a **single** teleport instance, they need Option 2 and a kubeconfig with multiple entries

Author: Thanks added a note.
